# The Project

The Slackbot Project contains 4 files in the Script folder

Files
dates.js
chatmessages.js
rockpaperscissors.js
tictactoe.js



File dates.js
*****************************
Functionality
The iRobot slackbot responds to user input by responding
to the user about dates, which day is today, which one
is the next holiday, which day of the week  is today etc.

Slackbot Commands

=> date is today : indicates the current date
=> day is today : indicates which day of the week is today
=> next holiday : indicates which one is the next
                  australian holiday
=> remaining holidays : indicates all the pending
                        australian holidays until the
                        end of the year

Approach taken
All the holidays have been stored in an object and the
week days have been stored in an array in order to
iterate and retrieve the corresponding item





File chatmessages.js
*******************************

Functionality
the iRobot slackbot sends messages to the other people in
the js2syd channel individually or as a group

Slackbot Commands

=> people channel : Indicates how many people are in the channel
=> message types : Indicates the two types of messages
                   iRobot can send
=> individual message : Indicates how the message needs to
                       be formatted in order to be successfully
                       sent
=> group messages : Indicates how the message needs to
                      be formatted in order to be
                      successfully sent

=> msg @xxxxx : message : Sends an individual message
=> message to @xxxx : message : Sends a group message


=> Approach taken
all the users in the Channel have been stored in an array
in order to be used to select the input users for messaging



File rockpaperscissors.js
***************************************
Functionality
The iRobot slackbot can play rock paper scissors game with
the user input


Slackbot commands
=> play rps : Enables the game to be played
=> rock | paper | scissors : any of these words if the game
                             is not enabled will prompt the
                             user to give the command to iRobot
                             to enable the game
=> rock | paper | scissors : any of these words will make
                             iRobot to respond to user input
                            and play the game storing the
                            results and calculating the best of
                            100 points


Approach taken
all the information about the points and type of hands
have been stored in an object. Functions have been
created to enable the robot to calculate the winning hand

Limitations
The game has not been extensively tested so the behavior
when enabling the game twice can make it unstable.
There is no command to stop the game at any time, so
if the user abandons the game, maybe the robot will keep
the data stored and and whenever the user types the words
rock, paper or scissors iRobot will keep counting the values
until the game reaches 100 points and stops.



File tictactoe.js
*******************************

Functionality
iRobot can play the popular tictactoe game with the user
generating the grid with the used slots and a list of
available moves for the user to keep prompting

Slackbot commands

=> stop game ttt: Stops the game and all its stored information
=> play games: indicates all the games that the robot can play
              and describe the way to start them

=> play "letter": makes the robot to fill the tictactoe grid
                  with the user symbol/icon and once used
                  the slot, it is removed from the list of
                  available slots for playing

=> play ttt: starts the game and generates a description of
              how to play it.


Limitations
The game has been extensively tested for start and stop
of the game at any point in time, response to different user inputs
and some safe fail measures (console.log commands) in
order to investigate the behavior of the Functions.
There may be still some logics to write or some
refactoring to do. Overall the game is playable and enjoyable.




##############################################




# irobot

irobot is a chat bot built on the [Hubot][hubot] framework. It was
initially generated by [generator-hubot][generator-hubot], and configured to be
deployed on [Heroku][heroku] to get you up and running as quick as possible.

This README is intended to help get you started. Definitely update and improve
to talk about your own instance, how to use and deploy, what functionality is
available, etc!

[heroku]: http://www.heroku.com
[hubot]: http://hubot.github.com
[generator-hubot]: https://github.com/github/generator-hubot

### Running irobot Locally

You can test your hubot by running the following, however some plugins will not
behave as expected unless the [environment variables](#configuration) they rely
upon have been set.

You can start irobot locally by running:

    % bin/hubot

You'll see some start up output and a prompt:

    [Sat Feb 28 2015 12:38:27 GMT+0000 (GMT)] INFO Using default redis on localhost:6379
    irobot>

Then you can interact with irobot by typing `irobot help`.

    irobot> irobot help
    irobot animate me <query> - The same thing as `image me`, except adds [snip]
    irobot help - Displays all of the help commands that irobot knows about.
    ...

### Configuration

A few scripts (including some installed by default) require environment
variables to be set as a simple form of configuration.

Each script should have a commented header which contains a "Configuration"
section that explains which values it requires to be placed in which variable.
When you have lots of scripts installed this process can be quite labour
intensive. The following shell command can be used as a stop gap until an
easier way to do this has been implemented.

    grep -o 'hubot-[a-z0-9_-]\+' external-scripts.json | \
      xargs -n1 -I {} sh -c 'sed -n "/^# Configuration/,/^#$/ s/^/{} /p" \
          $(find node_modules/{}/ -name "*.coffee")' | \
        awk -F '#' '{ printf "%-25s %s\n", $1, $2 }'

How to set environment variables will be specific to your operating system.
Rather than recreate the various methods and best practices in achieving this,
it's suggested that you search for a dedicated guide focused on your OS.

### Scripting

An example script is included at `scripts/example.coffee`, so check it out to
get started, along with the [Scripting Guide][scripting-docs].

For many common tasks, there's a good chance someone has already one to do just
the thing.

[scripting-docs]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/scripting.md

### external-scripts

There will inevitably be functionality that everyone will want. Instead of
writing it yourself, you can use existing plugins.

Hubot is able to load plugins from third-party `npm` packages. This is the
recommended way to add functionality to your hubot. You can get a list of
available hubot plugins on [npmjs.com][npmjs] or by using `npm search`:

    % npm search hubot-scripts panda
    NAME             DESCRIPTION                        AUTHOR DATE       VERSION KEYWORDS
    hubot-pandapanda a hubot script for panda responses =missu 2014-11-30 0.9.2   hubot hubot-scripts panda
    ...


To use a package, check the package's documentation, but in general it is:

1. Use `npm install --save` to add the package to `package.json` and install it
2. Add the package name to `external-scripts.json` as a double quoted string

You can review `external-scripts.json` to see what is included by default.

##### Advanced Usage

It is also possible to define `external-scripts.json` as an object to
explicitly specify which scripts from a package should be included. The example
below, for example, will only activate two of the six available scripts inside
the `hubot-fun` plugin, but all four of those in `hubot-auto-deploy`.

```json
{
  "hubot-fun": [
    "crazy",
    "thanks"
  ],
  "hubot-auto-deploy": "*"
}
```

**Be aware that not all plugins support this usage and will typically fallback
to including all scripts.**

[npmjs]: https://www.npmjs.com

### hubot-scripts

Before hubot plugin packages were adopted, most plugins were held in the
[hubot-scripts][hubot-scripts] package. Some of these plugins have yet to be
migrated to their own packages. They can still be used but the setup is a bit
different.

To enable scripts from the hubot-scripts package, add the script name with
extension as a double quoted string to the `hubot-scripts.json` file in this
repo.

[hubot-scripts]: https://github.com/github/hubot-scripts

##  Persistence

If you are going to use the `hubot-redis-brain` package (strongly suggested),
you will need to add the Redis to Go addon on Heroku which requires a verified
account or you can create an account at [Redis to Go][redistogo] and manually
set the `REDISTOGO_URL` variable.

    % heroku config:add REDISTOGO_URL="..."

If you don't need any persistence feel free to remove the `hubot-redis-brain`
from `external-scripts.json` and you don't need to worry about redis at all.

[redistogo]: https://redistogo.com/

## Adapters

Adapters are the interface to the service you want your hubot to run on, such
as Campfire or IRC. There are a number of third party adapters that the
community have contributed. Check [Hubot Adapters][hubot-adapters] for the
available ones.

If you would like to run a non-Campfire or shell adapter you will need to add
the adapter package as a dependency to the `package.json` file in the
`dependencies` section.

Once you've added the dependency with `npm install --save` to install it you
can then run hubot with the adapter.

    % bin/hubot -a <adapter>

Where `<adapter>` is the name of your adapter without the `hubot-` prefix.

[hubot-adapters]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/adapters.md

## Deployment

    % heroku create --stack cedar
    % git push heroku master

If your Heroku account has been verified you can run the following to enable
and add the Redis to Go addon to your app.

    % heroku addons:add redistogo:nano

If you run into any problems, checkout Heroku's [docs][heroku-node-docs].

You'll need to edit the `Procfile` to set the name of your hubot.

More detailed documentation can be found on the [deploying hubot onto
Heroku][deploy-heroku] wiki page.

### Deploying to UNIX or Windows

If you would like to deploy to either a UNIX operating system or Windows.
Please check out the [deploying hubot onto UNIX][deploy-unix] and [deploying
hubot onto Windows][deploy-windows] wiki pages.

[heroku-node-docs]: http://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/node-js
[deploy-heroku]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/deploying/heroku.md
[deploy-unix]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/deploying/unix.md
[deploy-windows]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/deploying/windows.md

## Campfire Variables

If you are using the Campfire adapter you will need to set some environment
variables. If not, refer to your adapter documentation for how to configure it,
links to the adapters can be found on [Hubot Adapters][hubot-adapters].

Create a separate Campfire user for your bot and get their token from the web
UI.

    % heroku config:add HUBOT_CAMPFIRE_TOKEN="..."

Get the numeric IDs of the rooms you want the bot to join, comma delimited. If
you want the bot to connect to `https://mysubdomain.campfirenow.com/room/42`
and `https://mysubdomain.campfirenow.com/room/1024` then you'd add it like
this:

    % heroku config:add HUBOT_CAMPFIRE_ROOMS="42,1024"

Add the subdomain hubot should connect to. If you web URL looks like
`http://mysubdomain.campfirenow.com` then you'd add it like this:

    % heroku config:add HUBOT_CAMPFIRE_ACCOUNT="mysubdomain"

[hubot-adapters]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/adapters.md

## Restart the bot

You may want to get comfortable with `heroku logs` and `heroku restart` if
you're having issues.
# tictactoe
